---
title: 'Pocket Guide to Implementing Cloud Hybrid Search in SharePoint Server 2016 Beta 2'
date: Sat, 28 Nov 2015 19:56:40 +0000
draft: true
tags: ['Hybrid', 'SharePoint']
---

Plan Cloud Hybrid Search

Cloud hybrid search is the next generation in hybrid search solutions, available to SharePoint Server 2013 and SharePoint Server 2016. Cloud hybrid search is provisioned as a Search Service Application (Cloud Search Service Application) in SharePoint. The Cloud Search Service Application, unlike, classic federated hybrid search, unifies crawled content into a single index stored in Office 365.


========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Cloud Hybrid Search versus Federated Hybrid Search
--------------------------------------------------

Cloud hybrid search primary difference is how the search index is stored and managed. In a cloud hybrid search scenario, the search index for both on-premises and Office 365 crawled content is stored in Office 365 whereas in federated hybrid search maintains a discrete index for on-premises content (stored on-premises) and Office 365 content (stored in Office 365). Search results are obtained from each location where an index is stored. In addition, in a federated hybrid search scenario, each search implementation is managed separately whereas with cloud hybrid search, all search configuration is performed in Office 365. Cloud hybrid search benefits from the cloud-hosted index by providing access to additional Office 365 search and discovery innovation to include the Office Graph and Office Delve in addition to search driven experiences such as eDiscovery in SharePoint Online.

For customers in heavy regulated industries and/or customers who have significant investment in search customization, federated hybrid search may be considered as it does not require change to the existing search environment and indexed content remains isolated and stored on-premises.

Provision a Cloud Search Service Application
============================================

1.  Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Farm Administrators group for the farm for which you want to create the service application.
2.  On the Central Administration home page, in the **Application Management** section, click **Manage service applications**.
3.  On the Manage Service Applications page, on the ribbon, click **New**, and then click **Search Service Application**.
4.  On the Create New Search Service Application page, do the following:

1.  Accept the default value for **Service Application name**, or type a new name for the Search service application.
2.  Select Cloud Search Service Application from the list of available options.

3.  In the **Search Service Account** list, select the managed account that you registered in the previous procedure to run the Search service.
4.  In the **Application Pool for Search Admin Web Service** section, do the following:

1.  Select the **Create new application pool** option, and then specify a name for the application pool in the **Application pool name** text box.
2.  In the **Select a security account for this application pool** section, select the **Configurable** option, and then from the list select the account that you registered to run the application pool for the Search Admin Web Service.

6.  In the **Application Pool for Search Query and Site Settings Web Service** section, do the following:

1.  Choose the **Create new application pool** option, and then specify a name for the application pool in the **Application pool name** text box.
2.  In the **Select a security account for this application pool** section, select the **Configurable** option, and then from the list select the account that you registered to run the application pool for the Search Query and Site Settings Web Service.

*   Click **OK**.

Configure the Cloud Search Service Application
==============================================

Prerequisites
-------------

Configuring the Cloud Search Service Application requires installing one or more applications on the SharePoint Server that hosts the SharePoint Central Administration website.

### Microsoft Online Services Sign-In Assistant for IT Professionals

*   Download and install the Microsoft Online Services Sign-In Assistant for IT Professionals RTW from the Microsoft Download Center.
    

The Microsoft Online Services Sign-In Assistant provides end user sign-in capabilities to Microsoft Online Services, such as Office 365. The MOS SIA installs client components that allow common applications, such as Microsoft Outlook and Lync, to authenticate to Microsoft Online Services. The MOS SIA can also provide an improved sign-in experience, such that end users can access Microsoft Online Services without having to re-enter their credentials (such as a user name or password). This download is intended for IT Professionals, for distribution to managed client systems as part of an Office 365 client deployment, via System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) or similar software distribution systems. For users who are installing Office 365 by means of the Office 365 Desktop Setup application, this download is not necessary, because the MOS SIA is installed as part of the Desktop Setup process.

### Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell

*   Install the Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell (64-bit version), click Run to run the installer package. 
    

You can use the Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell cmdlets for Azure AD administrative tasks such as user management, domain management and for configuring single sign-on.

### OnBoard-HybridSearch.ps1

Download Onboard-HybridSearch.ps1 at [http://connect.microsoft.com/office/SelfNomination.aspx?ProgramID=8647&pageType=1](http://connect.microsoft.com/office/SelfNomination.aspx?ProgramID=8647&pageType=1).

Onboard-HybridSearch.ps1 sets up server-to-server authentication and configures trust between SharePoint Server 2013/2016 and your Office 365 tenant. Server-to-server authentication allows for servers that are capable of server-to-server authentication to access and request resources from one another on behalf of users.

1.  Verify that you are a member of the Administrators group on the server on which you are running Windows PowerShell cmdlets.

*   **Securityadmin** fixed server role on the SQL Server instance.
*   **db\_owner** fixed database role on all databases that are to be updated.

An administrator can use the **Add-SPShellAdmin** cmdlet to grant permissions to use SharePoint 2013 cmdlets.

**Note:**

If you do not have permissions, contact your Setup administrator or SQL Server administrator to request permissions. For additional information about Windows PowerShell permissions, see [Add-SPShellAdmin](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff607596.aspx).

2.  In the SharePoint 2013 environment on the farm that is receiving server-to-server requests, start the SharePoint 2013 Management Shell.

*   For Windows Server 2008 R2:

*   In the SharePoint 2013 environment, on the **Start** menu, click **All Programs**, click **Microsoft SharePoint 2013 Products**, and then click **SharePoint 2013 Management Shell**.

*   For Windows Server 2012:

*   In the SharePoint 2013 environment, on the **Start** screen, click **SharePoint 2013 Management Shell**.

If **SharePoint 2013 Management Shell** is not on the **Start** screen:

*   Right-click **Computer**, click **All apps**, and then click **SharePoint 2013 Management Shell**.

For more information about how to interact with Windows Server 2012, see [Common Management Tasks and Navigation in Windows Server 2012](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh831491.aspx).

3.  At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command:

./Onboard-HybridSearch.ps1

The onboarding script prompts for the Office 365 Tenant to configure, to be specified as a Url, for example https://<customer>.sharepoint.com in addition to the credentials of the Administrator associated with the Office 365 Tenant to be configured.

Create a Content Source
=======================

In order for users to be able to get search results, the Cloud Search Service Application must first crawl the corresponding content. Crawling requires at least one _content source_. A content source is a set of options that you use to specify the type of content to crawl, the starting URLs to crawl, and when and how deep to crawl. Similar to a native Search Service Application, when the Cloud Search Service Application is created, a content source named "Local SharePoint sites" is automatically created and configured for crawling all SharePoint sites in the local server farm, and for crawling user profiles.

You can create content sources to specify other content to crawl and how the system will crawl that content; however, you do not have to create other content sources if you do not want to crawl content other than the SharePoint sites in the local farm.

Limit Content in Office 365 Index
---------------------------------

Customers who wish to only store a portion of their content in the Office 365 index with cloud hybrid search can limit what content is crawled and processed by the Cloud Search Service Application by creating discrete content sources to crawl thereby restricting content not included in those content sources.

Cloud Hybrid Search Architecture
================================

The Cloud Search Service Application operates similarly to the native Search Service Application used to index and discover on-premises content; however, when using the Cloud Search Service Application, content processing, index storage, and analytics processing occurs in Office 365. Unlike the native Search Service Application, the Cloud Search Service Application does not use discrete content processing, analytics, and/or links database as these components are managed in Office 365; however, their respective databases are provisioned with the Cloud Search Service Application, though remain idle.

The Cloud Search Service Application uses a unique managed property as part of the SharePoint Online search schema to identify on-premises content by setting the property to TRUE. Using this managed property in SharePoint Online search you can validate the search service by using isexternalcontent:1 in a search query.

Troubleshooting
---------------

In the event on-premises results are not returned, examine the crawl log on-premises. The most common issue is:

The item was reported as failed by the Search Content Service. It will be retried in the next incremental crawl. ( -1 (0): Parsing error parsing invalid JSON input stream. ; SearchID = FCAC6708-6982-4BB5-9A50-11FA405DAB2F )

$ssa=Get-SPEnterpriseSearchServiceApplication –Identity “Cloud Search Service Application 1”  
$ssa.SetProperty(“DisableGuidValueFlight”,1)  
$ssa.SetProperty(“EnableGuidValueFlight”,0)  
$ssa.Update()  
Restart-Service SPSearchHostController  
Restart-Service OSearch16

Configure the SharePoint Server 2016 Beta 2 Search Center
=========================================================

The Cloud Search Service Application index as previously described is managed in Office 365 therefore results are returned via Office 365. In order to simplify search and discovery for users, configure the on-premises Global Search Center Url with the Url of the SharePoint Online search center.

1.  Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Farm Administrators group for the farm for which you want to create the service application.
2.  On the Central Administration home page, in the **Application Management** section, click **Manage service applications**.
3.  On the Manage Service Applications page select the Cloud Search Service Application from the list of available Service Applications.
4.  On the Search Administration page, locate the Global Search Center Url field and specify the location of the SharePoint Online search center, for example, https://<customer>.sharepoint.com/Search/Pages.

Optionally a native Search Service Application can be provisioned in SharePoint Server 2016 Beta 2 that returns on-premises results.

Resources
=========

To learn more about Cloud Hybrid Search see also Get started with cloud hybrid search for SharePoint - version 1 at [http://connect.microsoft.com/office/SelfNomination.aspx?ProgramID=8647&pageType=1](http://connect.microsoft.com/office/SelfNomination.aspx?ProgramID=8647&pageType=1).