---
title: 'Which OneDrive for Business Sync Client is Right for Me?'
date: 
draft: true
tags: ['OneDrive for Business']
---

I want to sync SharePoint and OneDrive for Business libraries on-premises
=========================================================================

To sync on-premises instances of OneDrive for Business or SharePoint site libraries (when you don't have an Office 365 business or 21 Vianet subscription), you need to use the previous OneDrive for Business sync client (Groove.exe). If you're not sure which version of OneDrive you're using, or which version of OneDrive you need, see also [Which version of OneDrive am I using?](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Which-version-of-OneDrive-am-I-using-19246eae-8a51-490a-8d97-a645c151f2ba?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US) for information on determining which sync client you are using. See also [Set up your computer to sync SharePoint Server on-premises files ](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Set-up-your-computer-to-sync-SharePoint-Server-on-premises-files-59b1de2b-519e-4d3a-8f45-51647cf291cd?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US) for information on configuring OneDrive for Business.

I want to sync SharePoint and OneDrive for Business libraries in Office 365
===========================================================================

OneDrive for Business can sync both OneDrive for Business libraries as well as SharePoint Online document libraries from team sites. For more information about this functionality and how to set up team site sync using OneDrive for Business, see the following Microsoft website: [Enable users to sync SharePoint files with the new OneDrive sync client](https://support.office.com/article/22e1f635-fb89-49e0-a176-edab26f69614) If you want to sync from SharePoint on-premises environments or sync another user’s OneDrive library, you should use the previous OneDrive for Business application (Groove.exe). See also [Set up your computer to sync your OneDrive for Business files in Office 365](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Set-up-your-computer-to-sync-your-OneDrive-for-Business-files-in-Office-365-23e1f12b-d896-4cb1-a238-f91d19827a16) for information on configuring OneDrive for Business and [Sync SharePoint files with the new OneDrive sync client](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Sync-SharePoint-files-with-the-new-OneDrive-sync-client-6de9ede8-5b6e-4503-80b2-6190f3354a88?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US) for information on sync for SharePoint libraries in Office 365 with OneDrive for Business.

I want to sync SharePoint libraries across on-premises and Office 365
=====================================================================

To sync on-premises instances of SharePoint libraries on-premises and Office 365 you will need to install both versions of OneDrive for Business.  Both the onedrive.exe and groove.exe clients can run at the same time. For instructions on how to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online see also [How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2903984/how-to-install-the-onedrive-for-business-sync-client-for-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online).If you are using Office 2016 applications refer to How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and later and SharePoint Online when using Office 2016 applications at [How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and later and SharePoint Online when using Office 2016 applications](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3175950/how-to-install-the-onedrive-for-business-sync-client-for-sharepoint-2013-and-later-and-sharepoint-online-when-using-office-2016-applications). Optionally you can choose to implement a OneDrive for Business hybrid scenario.  You can redirect users to OneDrive for Business in Office 365 when they choose OneDrive in the navigation bar (SharePoint Server 2010 and SharePoint Server 2013) or in the app launcher (SharePoint Server 2016).   In SharePoint Server 2013 and SharePoint Server 2016, hybrid OneDrive for Business is available as part of several hybrid option bundles. See [Hybrid sites features and OneDrive for Business](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Hybrid-sites-features-and-OneDrive-for-Business-5ff7e56a-7af2-4511-adec-1e043afe244e#sitesfeatures) for details. Hybrid OneDrive for Business is also available with SharePoint Server 2010. See [Configure hybrid OneDrive for Business in SharePoint Server 2010](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=691695) for details.

I want to sync OneDrive for Business libraries across on-premises and Office 365
================================================================================

To sync on-premises instances of SharePoint libraries on-premises and Office 365 you will need to install both versions of OneDrive for Business.  Both the onedrive.exe and groove.exe clients can run at the same time. For instructions on how to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online see also [How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2903984/how-to-install-the-onedrive-for-business-sync-client-for-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online).If you are using Office 2016 applications refer to How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and later and SharePoint Online when using Office 2016 applications at [How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and later and SharePoint Online when using Office 2016 applications](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3175950/how-to-install-the-onedrive-for-business-sync-client-for-sharepoint-2013-and-later-and-sharepoint-online-when-using-office-2016-applications). Optionally you can choose to implement a OneDrive for Business hybrid scenario.  You can redirect users to OneDrive for Business in Office 365 when they choose OneDrive in the navigation bar (SharePoint Server 2010 and SharePoint Server 2013) or in the app launcher (SharePoint Server 2016).   In SharePoint Server 2013 and SharePoint Server 2016, hybrid OneDrive for Business is available as part of several hybrid option bundles. See [Hybrid sites features and OneDrive for Business](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Hybrid-sites-features-and-OneDrive-for-Business-5ff7e56a-7af2-4511-adec-1e043afe244e#sitesfeatures) for details. Hybrid OneDrive for Business is also available with SharePoint Server 2010. See [Configure hybrid OneDrive for Business in SharePoint Server 2010](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=691695) for details.

I want to sync SharePoint and OneDrive for Business libraries across on-premises and Office 365
===============================================================================================

To sync on-premises instances of SharePoint libraries on-premises and Office 365 you will need to install both versions of OneDrive for Business.  Both the onedrive.exe and groove.exe clients can run at the same time. For instructions on how to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online see also [How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2903984/how-to-install-the-onedrive-for-business-sync-client-for-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online).If you are using Office 2016 applications refer to How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and later and SharePoint Online when using Office 2016 applications at [How to install the OneDrive for Business sync client for SharePoint 2013 and later and SharePoint Online when using Office 2016 applications](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3175950/how-to-install-the-onedrive-for-business-sync-client-for-sharepoint-2013-and-later-and-sharepoint-online-when-using-office-2016-applications). Optionally you can choose to implement a OneDrive for Business hybrid scenario.  You can redirect users to OneDrive for Business in Office 365 when they choose OneDrive in the navigation bar (SharePoint Server 2010 and SharePoint Server 2013) or in the app launcher (SharePoint Server 2016).   In SharePoint Server 2013 and SharePoint Server 2016, hybrid OneDrive for Business is available as part of several hybrid option bundles. See [Hybrid sites features and OneDrive for Business](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Hybrid-sites-features-and-OneDrive-for-Business-5ff7e56a-7af2-4511-adec-1e043afe244e#sitesfeatures) for details. Hybrid OneDrive for Business is also available with SharePoint Server 2010. See [Configure hybrid OneDrive for Business in SharePoint Server 2010](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=691695) for details.