---
title: 'SharePoint spaces, a new dimension for your intranet'
date: Mon, 01 Oct 2018 22:07:05 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Mixed Reality', 'SharePoint', 'SharePoint spaces']
---

_Everything you can imagine is real.  _ **\-Pablo Picasso  ** Last week at Microsoft Ignite we continued to build on the momentum of our 2018 SharePoint Conference in May - sharing the latest news, announcements, and investments we're bringing to SharePoint Online as your intelligent and engaging intranet in Office 365. In addition to delivering innovation to bring you an intelligent and engaging intranet, we're also continuing our journey to introduce a new dimension to your intranet through SharePoint spaces. SharePoint spaces introduces immersive, mixed reality experiences for your intranet—which enable you to view and interact with content from every angle and visualize and manipulate data and product models in real-time. SharePoint spaces mainstreams mixed reality, empowering everyone to create visually compelling spaces that are available to anyone, on any device.  With SharePoint spaces you can build immersive experiences with point-and-click simplicity with smart templates to create a mixed reality environment complete with beautiful surroundings, ambient sounds, rich textures, and lighting. You can then add content, which can include 2D, 3D or 360 content you already have in Office 365, allowing you to repurpose your existing data, documents, and images.  Mixed reality has the potential to help customers and businesses across the globe do things that, until now, have never been possible. Mixed reality experiences help businesses, educational organizations, the public sector, and healthcare institutions complete crucial tasks faster, safer, more efficiently, and to create new ways to connect to customers and partners.  Learn how our customers are using SharePoint spaces and explore the many possibilities with SharePoint spaces…  [www.exploresharepointspaces.com](http://www.exploresharepointspaces.com)