---
title: 'SharePoint Conference North America'
date: Wed, 17 Jan 2018 18:36:02 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['SharePoint', 'SharePoint Conference', 'SPC', 'SPC18', 'SPCNA']
---

The SharePoint Conference North America is less than ~123 days away, if you’re an IT Professional, implementer, decision maker, business user, or developer you don’t want to miss this SharePoint Conference. The SharePoint Conference North America promises to be 2018’s premier event for SharePoint and related technologies, featuring over 140 sessions (8,400 minutes) of content under one roof.  In addition, SharePoint Conference North America is the host for this years SharePoint Virtual Summit where we’ll share the latest innovations, vision, and strategy across SharePoint and OneDrive.  Don’t miss this unique opportunity to be part of the action, live, and in-person. **For IT Professionals** In today’s world of converging technologies and operating models, IT Professionals are under more demand to deliver value and foster innovation within organizations.  SharePoint Conference North America for IT Professionals recognizes these challenges and delivers deep technical and business content to ensure the IT Professional not only comes away with a more fundamental understand of SharePoint, but also its related technologies and infrastructure.  From Azure Active Directory to OneDrive and more you’ll find content covering a variety of topics and technologies to help position your organization better now and in the future through continued technological innovations and changes in our global and dynamic marketplace. SharePoint Conference North America is not only about connecting you with the latest technology trends, but also connecting you with your peers.  Through its sessions you’ll learn from the foremost SharePoint experts and through a number of scheduled day and evening events you’ll be able to connect with peers and technology leaders one on one in casual settings to share ideas and learn best practices. For the IT Professional audience we’ll have over 100 dedicated sessions,  deep demonstrations, and more. Whether you’re just learning about SharePoint or have been working with SharePoint you’ll find a variety of sessions, chalk talks, and labs that provide a blend of overview, deep dive experience, and best practice recommendations. **For Developers** Learn more about developer tools, resources, and solutions that help you design and build solutions that harness the power of the Office 365 platform, and expand the reach of your solution to new customers, partners, and markets. In addition, you will be able to connect with Microsoft MVPs, community leaders, and other developers in your area. **For Business Users** Learn how businesses are changing strategies to leverage the cloud and better support digital transformation and how your peers are tackling similar challenges. In addition, learn and share best practices and come home with new ideas, how other customers are moving workloads of all sizes, including mission critical applications, to the cloud now, and how to use SharePoint, OneDrive, and more to connect, collaborate, and communicate more effectively. Need more convincing to register today, have a look at the [pre- and post-conference opportunities](https://sharepointna.com/#!/workshops). Whether you’re looking get started in the cloud or remain on premises we have sessions before, throughout, and after the conference to help you meet your learning goals. SharePoint Conference North America is about connecting you with technology, your peers, and the cloud.  Don’t miss your chance to be part of the world’s largest SharePoint conference and [register](https://sharepointna.com/#!/register) today. Still on the fence?  Hotel rooms at the venue are booking quickly, reserve your stay at the venue at [https://aws.passkey.com/event/49175522/owner/28465/home](https://aws.passkey.com/event/49175522/owner/28465/home) before they run out and register for the event at a later date. By the way, did I mention it’s Las Vegas?